# AI Assignment

The notebook `AI_Assignment.ipynb` is analyzing credit card fraud from a dataset `card_transdata.csv`. I utilized ChatGPT-5 mini in Visual Studio Code to assist in creating the code necessary for this analysis. 

There were several concrete benefits that I saw by utilizing AI to help me make the notebook. Firstly, it was able to easily create basic code that is necessary in every analysis, such as important libraries like pandas and numpy. Secondly, by giving it enough descriptions, it was able to generate accurate plots that aid the analysis. Additionally, it does a good job of auto-detecting column names when the exact column name is not provided, which I found to be very intriguing. 

For someone who hasn't learned data science properly, the dangers that I see are that the AI agent can produce a lot of extra/unnecessary code to make simple charts. If an attribute is not exactly what the user wants, it could be hard for them to debug the code to fix it. For example, when making a bar chart of the percentage of fraudulent transactions when a PIN was used or not, the AI Agent produces a lot of extra code (like making a robust fraud flag) that is not completely necessary or can be simplified based on the context of the problem and data. Instead of producing over 50 lines of code, a user who understands the data and analysis can produce the same results in under 10 lines of code. The user needs to understand what is going on so that they do not encounter errors when attempting to alter code that an AI Agent wrote. 

I was able to compare most of the output that the AI gave with the example notebook linked on Brightspace. Additionally, I also verified some of the statistical outputs by writing my own code and comparing the outputs. Also, when AI generated the countplots, I checked if the totals added up to the number of rows present in the cleaned dataset, ensuring that every row was being used in the analysis. I also did some quick visual inspection of the data to make sure that the outputs generated looked consistent with what I was seeing in the data.
